[D1] landing page revision (#8821)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/d1/_index.md

order: 0
type: overview
weight: 1
layout: overview
pcx_content_type: overview
meta:

>   title: Cloudflare D1

Reviewer: Just as a note, you don't necessarily need this if it's exactly the same as the H1 below

---

# Cloudflare D1

{{<description>}}

Create new serverless SQL databases to query from your Workers and Pages projects.

{{</description>}}

Built on SQLite, D1 is Cloudflare’s first [queryable relational database](https://blog.cloudflare.com/introducing-d1/). Create a database by [importing data](/d1/learning/importing-data/) or [defining your tables](/d1/get-started/#5-run-a-query-against-your-d1-database). [Write queries within a Worker](/d1/get-started/#write-queries-within-your-worker) or [Pages project](/pages/platform/functions/bindings/#d1-databases).

With D1, you can [interact with and push changes to your database directly through Wrangler](/d1/get-started/#1-install-and-authenticate-wrangler), create and modify your database directly from the Cloudflare dashboard, store backups of your database in R2 and [export your backups to download to your local machine](/d1/learning/backups/).

{{<Aside type="warning" header="Public Alpha">}}

While in the Alpha period, there is a possibility of breaking changes. The Alpha is meant for testing purposes and using it for Production traffic is not recommended.

> With D1 currently in Alpha, go full-stack and build applications like eCommerce sites, accounting software, SaaS solutions, and CRMs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With D1 currently in Alpha, go full-stack and build applications like e-commerce sites, accounting software, SaaS solutions, and CRMs.
```
